.\"	Copyright (c) 2008,2009,2010 Yahoo! Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 15, 2012
.Dt FETCH-VLIST 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fetch-vlist
.Nd fetch and install vulnerbility lists
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dhiv
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
tool downloads and installs the vulnerability lists used by
.Xr yvc 1 .
Each list is expected to be PGP signed;
.Nm
will verify the signature after donwloading the file.
.Pp
Originally, the lists are fetched into a temporary location.
If a fetched file is different from the currently used version, then it is
installed.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width _h
.It Fl d
Don't do anything, just report what would be done.
.It Fl h
Print a short usage statement and exit.
.It Fl i
Ignore any errors due to the PGP signature.
Errors may include the inability to verify the signature because the
public key is not in the used keyring or an actual signature mismatch.
.It Fl v
Be verbose.
.El
.Sh LISTS
The following lists may be downloaded and installed by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width nbvlist_
.It fbvlist
A list of vulnerabilities known in the FreeBSD ports collection, derived
from http://www.freebsd.org/ports/portaudit/ and fetched from
http://www.netmeister.org/apps/yvc/fbvlist.
.It nbvlist
A list of vulnerabilities provided by the NetBSD Project.
See http://www.netbsd.org/support/security/#check-pkgsrc for details.
Retrieved from
http://ftp.netbsd.org/pub/NetBSD/packages/vulns/pkg-vulnerabilities.
.It rh4vlist
A list of vulnerabilities known in RHEL4, derived from
http://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-all.xml.bz2 and
fetched from
http://www.netmeister.org/apps/yvc/rh4vlist.
.It rh5vlist
A list of vulnerabilities known in RHEL5, derived from
http://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-all.xml.bz2 and
fetched from
http://www.netmeister.org/apps/yvc/rh5vlist.
.It rh6vlist
A list of vulnerabilities known in RHEL6, derived from
http://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/com.redhat.rhsa-all.xml.bz2 and
fetched from
http://www.netmeister.org/apps/yvc/rh6vlist.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width _var_yvc_
.It /usr/local/var/yvc
The final directory into which the file is installed.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr yvc 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was conceptually based on NetBSD's "download-vulnerability-list" command.
It was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@yahoo-inc.com
in July 2008.
.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs and feature requests to the author.
