.\"	$Id: yvc.conf.5 4 2010-09-30 14:35:04Z jans $
.\"	$URL: svn+ssh://svn.corp.yahoo.com/yahoo/tools/yvc/branches/outgoing/doc/man/yvc.conf.5 $
.\"
.\"	Copyright (c) 2008 Yahoo! Inc.
.\"
.Dd June 04, 2012
.Dt YVC.CONF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm yvc.conf
.Nd
.Xr yvc 1
configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file specifies the various configuration options for
.Xr yvc 1 .
.Pp
The
.Nm
file consists of sections and parameters.
A section begins with the name of the section in square brackets and continues
until the next section begins or the end the file is reached.
.Pp
Sections contain parameters of the form 'name: value'.
.\" .Pp
.\" The values can contain format strings which refer to other values in the same
.\" section.
.\" .Pp
.\" For example:
.\" .Bd -literal -offset indent
.\" something: %(dir)s/whatever
.\" .Ed
.\" .Pp
.\" would resolve the "%(dir)s" to the value of dir.
.Pp
A line starting with the '#' character is ignored.
.Sh SECTIONS
At the moment, the only section supported is "[YVC]".
.Sh PARAMETERS
The following parameters are understood:
.Bl -tag -width LIST_OF_VULNERABILITIES_
.It IGNORE_TYPES
A list of vulnerability types that should be ignored.
.It IGNORE_URLS
A list of URLs that should be ignored.
That is, if a package is found to be vulnerable for the given URL, ignore it.
.It VLISTS
The file(s) in which the list(s) of vulnerabilities is/are found.
Defaults to /usr/local/var/yvc/yvlist and a platform-specific vlist.
.It VERBOSITY
Level of verbosity.
Valid values are '0' (no output except for vulnerable packages), '1' (some
output), '2' (a lot of output).
Defaults to '0'.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fetch-vlist 1 ,
.Xr rpm 1 ,
.Xr yinst 1 ,
.Xr yvc 1
.Sh HISTORY
Support for the
.Nm
file was built into the first release of
.Xr yvc 1 .
